packages/field/docs/FormatMixin.md, before:

# FormatMixin
The FormatMixin keeps track of the `modelValue`, `formattedValue` and `serializedValue`.
It is designed to work in conjunction with `LionField`.

## Concepts of different values

### modelValue
The model value is the result of the parser function.
It should be considered as the internal value used for validation and reasoning/logic.
The model value is 'ready for consumption' by the outside world (think of a Date object
or a float). The modelValue can(and is recommended to) be used as both input value and
output value of the `<lion-field>`

Examples:
- For a date input: a String '20/01/1999' will be converted to new Date('1999/01/20')
- For a number input: a formatted String '1.234,56' will be converted to a Number: 1234.56

### formattedValue
The view value is the result of the formatter function (when available).
The result will be stored in the native inputElement (usually an input[type=text]).

Examples:
- For a date input, this would be '20/01/1999' (dependent on locale).
- For a number input, this could be '1,234.56' (a String representation of modelValue
1234.56)

### serializedValue
The serialized version of the model value.
This value exists for maximal compatibility with the platform API.
The serialized value can be an interface in context where data binding is not supported
and a serialized string needs to be set.

Examples:
- For a date input, this would be the iso format of a date, e.g. '1999-01-20'.
- For a number input this would be the String representation of a float ('1234.56' instead
  of 1234.56)
When no parser is available, the value is usually the same as the formattedValue
(being inputElement.value)


## Formatters, parsers and (de)serializers
In order to create advanced user experiences (automatically formatting a user input or an input
set imperatively by an Application Developer).

Below some concrete examples can be found of implementations of formatters and parsers,
extrapolating the example of a date input.

### Formatters
A formatter should return a `formattedValue`:
```js
function formatDate(modelValue, options) {
  if (!(modelValue instanceof Date)) {
    return options.formattedValue;
  }
  return formatDateLocalized(modelValue, options);
}
```
Notice the options object, which holds a fallback value that shows what should be presented on
screen when the user input resulted in an invalid modelValue

### Parsers
A parser should return a `modelValue`:
```js
function parseDate(formattedValue, options) {
  return formattedValue === '' ? undefined : parseDateLocalized(formattedValue);
}
```
Notice that when it's not possible to create a valid modelValue based on the formattedValue,
one should return `undefined`.

### Serializers and deserializers
A serializer should return a `serializedValue`:
```js
function serializeDate(modelValue, options) {
  return modelValue.toISOString();
}
```
A deserializer should return a `modelValue`:
```js
function deserializeDate(serializeValue, options) {
  return new Date(serializeValue);
}
```

### FieldCustomMixin
When creating your own custom input, please use `FieldCustomMixin` as a basis for this.
Concrete examples can be found at [`<lion-input-date>`](../../input-date) and
[`<lion-input-amount>`](../../input-amount).

## Flow diagram
The following flow diagram is based on both end user input and interaction programmed by the
developer. It shows how the 'computation loop' for  modelValue, formattedValue and serializedValue
is triggered.

[Flow diagram](./formatterParserFlow.svg)

Commit message:

fix(field): return undefined when format conditions don't apply

packages/field/docs/FormatMixin.md, after:

# FormatMixin
The FormatMixin keeps track of the `modelValue`, `formattedValue` and `serializedValue`.
It is designed to work in conjunction with `LionField`.

## Concepts of different values

### model value
The model value is the result of the parser function. It will be stored as `.modelValue`.
It should be considered as the internal value used for validation and reasoning/logic.
The model value is 'ready for consumption' by the outside world (think of a Date object
or a float). The modelValue can(and is recommended to) be used as both input value and
output value of the `LionField`.

Examples:
- For a date input: a String '20/01/1999' will be converted to new Date('1999/01/20')
- For a number input: a formatted String '1.234,56' will be converted to a Number: 1234.56

### view value
The view value is the result of the formatter function.
It will be stored as `.formattedValue` and synchronized to `.value` (a viewValue setter that
allows to synchronize to `.inputElement`).
Synchronization happens conditionally and is usually the result of

Examples:
- For a date input, this would be '20/01/1999' (dependent on locale).
- For a number input, this could be '1,234.56' (a String representation of modelValue
1234.56)

### serialized value
The serialized version of the model value.
This value exists for maximal compatibility with the platform API.
The serialized value can be an interface in context where data binding is not supported
and a serialized string needs to be set.

Examples:
- For a date input, this would be the iso format of a date, e.g. '1999-01-20'.
- For a number input this would be the String representation of a float ('1234.56' instead
  of 1234.56)
When no parser is available, the value is usually the same as the formattedValue
(being inputElement.value)


## Formatters, parsers and (de)serializers
In order to create advanced user experiences (automatically formatting a user input or an input
set imperatively by an Application Developer).

Below some concrete examples can be found of implementations of formatters and parsers,
extrapolating the example of a date input.

### Formatters
A formatter should return a `formattedValue`:
```js
function formatDate(modelValue, options) {
  if (!(modelValue instanceof Date)) {
    return options.formattedValue;
  }
  return formatDateLocalized(modelValue, options);
}
```
Notice the options object, which holds a fallback value that shows what should be presented on
screen when the user input resulted in an invalid modelValue

### Parsers
A parser should return a `modelValue`:
```js
function parseDate(formattedValue, options) {
  return formattedValue === '' ? undefined : parseDateLocalized(formattedValue);
}
```
Notice that when it's not possible to create a valid modelValue based on the formattedValue,
one should return `undefined`.

### Serializers and deserializers
A serializer should return a `serializedValue`:
```js
function serializeDate(modelValue, options) {
  return modelValue.toISOString();
}
```
A deserializer should return a `modelValue`:
```js
function deserializeDate(serializeValue, options) {
  return new Date(serializeValue);
}
```

### FieldCustomMixin
When creating your own custom input, please use `FieldCustomMixin` as a basis for this.
Concrete examples can be found at [`<lion-input-date>`](../../input-date) and
[`<lion-input-amount>`](../../input-amount).

## Flow diagram
The following flow diagram is based on both end user input and interaction programmed by the
developer. It shows how the 'computation loop' for  modelValue, formattedValue and serializedValue
is triggered.

[Flow diagram](./formatterParserFlow.svg)
