packages/form-system/stories/03-formatting.stories.mdx, before:


import { Story, Meta, html } from '@open-wc/demoing-storybook';
import '@lion/input/lion-input.js';
import { Unparseable } from '@lion/validate';
import './helper-wc/h-output.js';

<Meta title="Form Fundaments/Formatting and Parsing" />

# Formatting and Parsing

> For demo purposes, below we use `<lion-input>` which is a basic extension of `<lion-field>`.
> Almost all fields share the same functionality as `<lion-input>`.

## Different values

The `FormatMixin` which is used in all lion fields automatically keeps track of:

- `modelValue`, which is a result of parsing
- `formattedValue`, which is a result of formatting
- `serializedValue`, which is a result of serializing

Our fields can automatically format/parse/serialize user input or an input set imperatively by an Application Developer.

Below are some concrete examples of implementations of formatters and parsers mimicking a (basic) amount input.

> For an actual amount input, check out [lion-input-amount](?path=/docs/forms-lion-input-amount).
> This comes with its own formatter, parser, serializer.

### Parsers & modelValue

A parser should return a `modelValue`.

The `modelValue` is the result of the parser function.
It should be considered as the **internal value used for validation and reasoning/logic**.
The `modelValue` is 'ready for consumption' by the outside world (think of a Date object or a float).
The `modelValue` can (and is recommended to) be used as both input value and output value of the `<lion-input>`.

In essence, the `modelValue` acts as a Single Source of Truth in our form fields and therefore a single way of programmatical interaction.
Formatted values, serialized values and reflected-back view values are derived from it.

You can listen to `model-value-changed` event on all fields.
Internally this is also used as the main trigger for re-evaluating validation, visibility and interaction states.

Examples:

- For a `date input`: a String '20/01/1999' will be converted to new Date('1999/01/20')
- For an `amount input`: a formatted String '1.234,56' will be converted to a Number: 1234.56


You can set a parser function on the `<lion-input>` to set parsing behavior.
In this example, we parse the input and try to convert it to a `Number`.

<Story name="Parser">
  {html`
    <lion-input
      label="Number Example"
      help-text="Uses .parser to create model values from view values"
      .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue)}"
      .modelValue="${1234567890}"
      @model-value-changed=${({ target }) => console.log(target) }
    ></lion-input>
    <h-output .show="${['modelValue']}"></h-output>
  `}
</Story>

```html
<lion-input
  label="Number Example"
  help-text="Uses .parser to create model values from view values"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue)}"
  .modelValue="${1234567890}"
></lion-input>
```

#### Unparseable

If a parser tries to parse and it returns undefined, the `modelValue` will be an instance of
`Unparseable`.

This object contains a type `'unparseable'`, and a `viewValue` which contains the String value of
what the user tried to input.

The formatted result of this that is reflected to the user will be the `viewValue` of the
`Unparseable` instance, so basically nothing happens for the user.

<Story name="Unparseable">
  {html`
    <lion-input
      label="Number Example"
      help-text="Uses .parser and return undefined if Number() cannot parse"
      .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue) || undefined}"
      value="${'1234abc567890'}"
    ></lion-input>
    <h-output .show="${['modelValue']}"></h-output>
  `}
</Story>

```html
<lion-input
  label="Number Example"
  help-text="Uses .parser and return undefined if Number() cannot parse"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue) || undefined}"
  value="${'1234abc567890'}"
></lion-input>
```

### Formatters

A formatter should return a `formattedValue`.
It accepts the current modelValue and an options object.

Below is a very naive and limited parser that ignores non-digits.
The formatter then uses `Intl.NumberFormat` to format it with thousand separators.

Formatted value is reflected back to the user `on-blur` of the field, but only if the field has no
errors (validation).

<Story name="Formatter">
  {() => {
    const formatDate = (modelValue, options) => {
      if (!(typeof modelValue === 'number')) {
        return options.formattedValue;
      }
      return new Intl.NumberFormat('en-GB').format(modelValue);
    };
    return html`
      <lion-input
        label="Number Example"
        help-text="Uses .formatter to create view value"
        .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
        .formatter="${formatDate}"
        .modelValue="${1234567890}"
      >
      </lion-input>
      <h-output .show="${['modelValue', 'formattedValue']}"></h-output>
    `;
  }}
</Story>

> The options object holds a fallback value that shows what should be presented on
> screen when the user input resulted in an invalid `modelValue`.

```js
const formatDate = (modelValue, options) => {
  if (!(typeof modelValue === 'number')) {
    return options.formattedValue;
  }
  return new Intl.NumberFormat('en-GB').format(modelValue);
};
```

```html
<lion-input
  label="Number Example"
  help-text="Uses .formatter to create view value"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
  .formatter="${formatDate}"
  .modelValue="${1234567890}"
></lion-input>
```

### Serializers and deserializers

A serializer converts the `modelValue` to a `serializedValue`.
In this example, we decide we want to store the user input to our hypothetical database, but by parsing it with radix 8 first.

A deserializer converts a value, for example one received from an API, to a `modelValue`.
This can be useful for prefilling forms with data from APIs.

> There is no `.deserializedValue` property that stays in sync by default.
> You need to call `el.deserializer(el.modelValue)` manually yourself.

<Story name="(De)serializers">
  {() => {
    const mySerializer = (modelValue, options) => {
      return parseInt(modelValue, 8);
    };
    const myDeserializer = (myValue, options) => {
      return new Number(myValue);
    };
    return html`
      <lion-input
        label="Date Example"
        help-text="Uses .(de)serializer to restore serialized modelValues"
        .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
        .serializer="${mySerializer}"
        .deserializer="${myDeserializer}"
        .modelValue="${1234567890}"
      ></lion-input>
      <h-output .show="${['modelValue', 'serializedValue']}"></h-output>
    `;
  }}
</Story>

```js
const mySerializer = (modelValue, options) => {
  return parseInt(modelValue, 8);
};

const myDeserializer = (myValue, options) => {
  return parseInt(modelValue, 10);
};
```

```html
<lion-input
  label="Date Example"
  help-text="Uses .(de)serializer to restore serialized modelValues"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
  .serializer="${mySerializer}"
  .deserializer="${myDeserializer}"
  .modelValue="${1234567890}"
></lion-input>
```

<Story name="Flow Diagram">
  {html`
    <img src="./packages/form-system/stories/diagram/FormatMixinDiagram-1.svg" />
    <img src="./packages/form-system/stories/diagram/FormatMixinDiagram-2.svg" />
    <img src="./packages/form-system/stories/diagram/FormatMixinDiagram-3.svg" />
  `}
</Story>

Commit message:

chore: fix sb load and add flow diagram explanation

packages/form-system/stories/03-formatting.stories.mdx, after:


import { Story, Meta, html } from '@open-wc/demoing-storybook';
import '@lion/input/lion-input.js';
import { Unparseable } from '@lion/validate';
import './helper-wc/h-output.js';

<Meta title="Form Fundaments/Formatting and Parsing" />

# Formatting and Parsing

> For demo purposes, below we use `<lion-input>` which is a basic extension of `<lion-field>`.
> Almost all fields share the same functionality as `<lion-input>`.

## Different values

The `FormatMixin` which is used in all lion fields automatically keeps track of:

- `modelValue`, which is a result of parsing
- `formattedValue`, which is a result of formatting
- `serializedValue`, which is a result of serializing

Our fields can automatically format/parse/serialize user input or an input set imperatively by an Application Developer.

Below are some concrete examples of implementations of formatters and parsers mimicking a (basic) amount input.

> For an actual amount input, check out [lion-input-amount](?path=/docs/forms-lion-input-amount).
> This comes with its own formatter, parser, serializer.

### Parsers & modelValue

A parser should return a `modelValue`.

The `modelValue` is the result of the parser function.
It should be considered as the **internal value used for validation and reasoning/logic**.
The `modelValue` is 'ready for consumption' by the outside world (think of a Date object or a float).
The `modelValue` can (and is recommended to) be used as both input value and output value of the `<lion-input>`.

In essence, the `modelValue` acts as a Single Source of Truth in our form fields and therefore a single way of programmatical interaction.
Formatted values, serialized values and reflected-back view values are derived from it.

You can listen to `model-value-changed` event on all fields.
Internally this is also used as the main trigger for re-evaluating validation, visibility and interaction states.

Examples:

- For a `date input`: a String '20/01/1999' will be converted to new Date('1999/01/20')
- For an `amount input`: a formatted String '1.234,56' will be converted to a Number: 1234.56


You can set a parser function on the `<lion-input>` to set parsing behavior.
In this example, we parse the input and try to convert it to a `Number`.

<Story name="Parser">
  {html`
    <lion-input
      label="Number Example"
      help-text="Uses .parser to create model values from view values"
      .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue)}"
      .modelValue="${1234567890}"
      @model-value-changed=${({ target }) => console.log(target) }
    ></lion-input>
    <h-output .show="${['modelValue']}"></h-output>
  `}
</Story>

```html
<lion-input
  label="Number Example"
  help-text="Uses .parser to create model values from view values"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue)}"
  .modelValue="${1234567890}"
></lion-input>
```

#### Unparseable

If a parser tries to parse and it returns undefined, the `modelValue` will be an instance of
`Unparseable`.

This object contains a type `'unparseable'`, and a `viewValue` which contains the String value of
what the user tried to input.

The formatted result of this that is reflected to the user will be the `viewValue` of the
`Unparseable` instance, so basically nothing happens for the user.

<Story name="Unparseable">
  {html`
    <lion-input
      label="Number Example"
      help-text="Uses .parser and return undefined if Number() cannot parse"
      .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue) || undefined}"
      value="${'1234abc567890'}"
    ></lion-input>
    <h-output .show="${['modelValue']}"></h-output>
  `}
</Story>

```html
<lion-input
  label="Number Example"
  help-text="Uses .parser and return undefined if Number() cannot parse"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue) || undefined}"
  value="${'1234abc567890'}"
></lion-input>
```

### Formatters

A formatter should return a `formattedValue`.
It accepts the current modelValue and an options object.

Below is a very naive and limited parser that ignores non-digits.
The formatter then uses `Intl.NumberFormat` to format it with thousand separators.

Formatted value is reflected back to the user `on-blur` of the field, but only if the field has no
errors (validation).

<Story name="Formatter">
  {() => {
    const formatDate = (modelValue, options) => {
      if (!(typeof modelValue === 'number')) {
        return options.formattedValue;
      }
      return new Intl.NumberFormat('en-GB').format(modelValue);
    };
    return html`
      <lion-input
        label="Number Example"
        help-text="Uses .formatter to create view value"
        .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
        .formatter="${formatDate}"
        .modelValue="${1234567890}"
      >
      </lion-input>
      <h-output .show="${['modelValue', 'formattedValue']}"></h-output>
    `;
  }}
</Story>

> The options object holds a fallback value that shows what should be presented on
> screen when the user input resulted in an invalid `modelValue`.

```js
const formatDate = (modelValue, options) => {
  if (!(typeof modelValue === 'number')) {
    return options.formattedValue;
  }
  return new Intl.NumberFormat('en-GB').format(modelValue);
};
```

```html
<lion-input
  label="Number Example"
  help-text="Uses .formatter to create view value"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
  .formatter="${formatDate}"
  .modelValue="${1234567890}"
></lion-input>
```

### Serializers and deserializers

A serializer converts the `modelValue` to a `serializedValue`.
In this example, we decide we want to store the user input to our hypothetical database, but by parsing it with radix 8 first.

A deserializer converts a value, for example one received from an API, to a `modelValue`.
This can be useful for prefilling forms with data from APIs.

> There is no `.deserializedValue` property that stays in sync by default.
> You need to call `el.deserializer(el.modelValue)` manually yourself.

<Story name="(De)serializers">
  {() => {
    const mySerializer = (modelValue, options) => {
      return parseInt(modelValue, 8);
    };
    const myDeserializer = (myValue, options) => {
      return new Number(myValue);
    };
    return html`
      <lion-input
        label="Date Example"
        help-text="Uses .(de)serializer to restore serialized modelValues"
        .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
        .serializer="${mySerializer}"
        .deserializer="${myDeserializer}"
        .modelValue="${1234567890}"
      ></lion-input>
      <h-output .show="${['modelValue', 'serializedValue']}"></h-output>
    `;
  }}
</Story>

```js
const mySerializer = (modelValue, options) => {
  return parseInt(modelValue, 8);
};

const myDeserializer = (myValue, options) => {
  return parseInt(modelValue, 10);
};
```

```html
<lion-input
  label="Date Example"
  help-text="Uses .(de)serializer to restore serialized modelValues"
  .parser="${viewValue => Number(viewValue.replace(/[^0-9]/g, ''))}"
  .serializer="${mySerializer}"
  .deserializer="${myDeserializer}"
  .modelValue="${1234567890}"
></lion-input>
```

### Flow Diagram

Below we show three flow diagrams to show the flow of formatting, serializing and parsing user input, with the example of a date input:

- Standard flow, where a user changes the input with their keyboard
- Unparseable flow, where a user sets the input to something that is not parseable by the parser
- Imperative / programmatic flow, where the developer sets the modelValue of the input programmatically

<Story name="Flow Diagram">
  {html`
    <img src="./packages/form-system/stories/diagram/FormatMixinDiagram-1.svg" />
    <img src="./packages/form-system/stories/diagram/FormatMixinDiagram-2.svg" />
    <img src="./packages/form-system/stories/diagram/FormatMixinDiagram-3.svg" />
  `}
</Story>
